Ragdoll physics.
In this video, we'll cover what is ragdoll physics and how do we set it up.
Then we'll open up unity and we'll create a ragdoll character using the Unity editor.
So what is ragdoll physics?
Well, it's common in video games to include humanoid characters walking on two feet, having two arms,
for example.
And those characters may die in the course of game play or get knocked unconscious.
The realistic physics movement of their character bodies, when they perhaps get shot in the first person
shooter or get knocked unconscious in some sort of a melee fighting game.
The character's unconscious Falling movement is what we call ragdoll physics.
Here's an example without ragdoll.
We have a humanoid model.
There's one box collider for the entire character.
As you can see, the character falls looking like a mannequin one rigid piece.
The results are predictable and don't have the variety or lifelike nature we want in a game.
With ragdoll, we have the same model, but there's many colliders.
We have collider per body part.
There's lots of them in the case of a humanoid model.
The results appear more loose and more random, and we like that.
This is a looping video of the exact same take, but if we were to repeat this live and in gameplay
we would see subtle movements.
The character would flip various different ways based on the surface he or she's on.
And we like that.
So comparing the two, we like the left result better with ragdoll.
We get a more loose feeling.
We get something more lifelike than using without ragdoll with one giant collider.
So let's set up the ragdoll.
The process was like this We're going to set up a3d character model.
Then we'd have to add many colliders.
You can see in the screenshot that the Ethan Skeleton character, which we have in the scene, has a
lot of parts.
We have the hand, we have the forearm, we have the forearm in the upper arm, etc. and we would need
to put a joint between every one of those rigid body and collider pairs.
Then we'd save it as a prefab and we'd be done.
Now, there was a time when you had to do this, but luckily Unity has a editor that we can use to do
this much more quickly.
So this is the rag doll wizard.
We can open up the Unity menu from Game Object three, Object Ragdoll and we see the menu that we've
got here in the screenshot.
What you do then is drag each part of that intricate hierarchy we saw in the last screenshot dragging
the pelvis, the left hips, the left knee, etc. You have to be careful because depending where you
get your model or if you build your model, the parts might not be named this way.
But this is pretty standard convention for humanoid character to have at least this many parts.
So you drag them all in there and then there's a few properties to set.
The properties will focus on our total mass.
This is the value distributed logically across all the joints.
So if you give it a value of default of 20, then the total mass of 20 is spread across those joints.
The strength is the resistance of the joints.
If you have a higher value, it's less likely to break apart.
You don't want your character to have body parts to break apart.
So it's common to keep the value there pretty high.
Flip forward.
If you set it to true, then if the model was created kind of backwards, then it will compensate for
that.
But typically, if you just drag the model out into the world and if it's looking forward toward the
camera, probably you want to use the default value, but you could experiment.
So let's set up a ragdoll Inside Unity.
We'll open up the ragdoll begin scene.
We'll play the scene to see that we don't yet have our ragdoll added.
Then we'll use the wizard to add the ragdoll.
Play the scene again and see the completed effect.
All right, Let's open up the next scene.
Here.
We're going to be looking at Ragdoll Begin.
We've got a series of cubes which we know from our pyramid of cubes.
We've added on top of model.
This character model is called Ethan, and I've marked it Ethan without ragdoll.
If we take a look at the model here.
We can see that he's got a skeleton.
With many parts.
I'll even expand our view so we can get a better idea.
So we can see we've got a lot of parts here.
If we just play the scene, nothing will happen because we don't yet have any physics, added the cubes.
Settle as we would expect them to, but our character floats in the air because he's got no physics
components yet.
Let's go ahead and use the wizard for creating the ragdoll.
Now as it instructs we drag all bones from the hierarchy into their slots.
Make sure your character is in a PT stand.
That's what we call this position the characters in.
Now, typically 3D modelers and animators use this position with the arms extended out and the body
relatively straight looks something like the letter T.
So let's go ahead and drag in.
Now notice that some of the naming from this model is different.
It doesn't necessarily say pelvis, left hips, etc. It may take some experimenting, of course, depending
who made the model or even if you made it yourself.
Each person has free reign over naming these parts.
We hope that there's a 1 to 1 relationship between the structure that the rag doll wizard wants and
the structure of the model.
Here it seems like we have that now as the last step.
We can set the total mass, the strength and the flip forward.
I'm going to change the total mass to a higher value.
I'm going to try 100 for the strength.
I'll set a value of one.
And flip forward.
I'll set it true.
It's actually giving me an error here.
Right elbow and left elbow may not be assigned to the same.
So let me see.
I've accidentally set that wrong, so I will use right.
Great.
No errors.
And I can use the create button.
And done.
Now if we explore the model.
Clicking through some key pieces here.
Let's say that the left arm, for example, we can see we have a character joint set up and a rigid
body.
So each of these have been set up properly.
Let's run the scene and see the result.
Looks good.
I'll use the space bar shortcut available in all the packed pub scenes and watch it several times.
Now, because I've set his mass to 100, he falls, forcing the cubes out of the way.
If I had set a different value, perhaps lower like the default 20, you might fall around the cubes.
But here he's relatively heavy, relatively massive.
In the next video, we'll cover terrain physics.